---
title: Cannabis Hallucinations
---

La única vez que me mal-viaje fue con unos brownies...

La experiencia quizás algun día la relate acá pero por ahora la anecdota más cercana que encontré en internet proviene de [acá](https://www.quora.com/Could-cannabis-cause-hallucinations/answers/111997945)

>This is the story of my experiences I had twice which really made me stop smoking weed.

>The first one was pretty random. After ripping 4–5 hits of bong I was pretty calmed down and started passing out. And suddenly I went in hallucination. I started dreaming random stuff such as wars, games, space and things. And all was getting inter-connected. The transition were like I had views of war going on from the perspective of cameras in movies. Watching each scene. Which suddenly started blurring and turned in 2-d ones. Like those 2-d games but at same time I was thinking about views of blood and the souls flying out. It then transitioned to millions of other things which i myself even cant recall.

>During all this time my friends where trying to wake me up. Cause for some unknown reason I got out of my room and passed out in corridor. Bo idea how it happened. I have blurred memories of the time. When I saw my friends and only remember few moments during this. And the most interesting fact was that I already dreamt of places and people i was about to encounter that night. Or maybe it just messed up in my mind that it happened that way. But that night I felt weird.

>I remember a moment when i was on a couch. Lying down. And my friend stalking to each other and looking after me. But then I passed out again. And when I opened my eyes. I was going to lay on that couch and my friends sat as same as I saw earlier. It was like I was getting views of future or maybe experiencing present and travelling back in past to re experience it. This part got weirder and weirder later on. It was like I was stuck on that same moment. I was thinking a lot of things. Felt time passing by opening my eyes and the same moment is still in front of me. Bot even a single nanoseconds of moments happened. And that loop thing was damn confusing. I was battling in my mind to get out of loop and think something else but then getting lost into it and getting back to the thoughts that I thought of getting out of loop and loosing my mind again. Make this 1000 folds deep. And think that you thought of a thing which was though of the same thing and same and same and so on. Folds of thoughts with no ends. I was stuck in it. Don’t know how exactly to describe that more. And during all this time the time was froze. All this happened in half hours according to my friends. That I got high to the moment I was on couch was all half hours. And it felt like eternity my loop of thoughts. And time frozen during all those folds of thoughts

>To describe more. The thoughts of fold were like when I thought that i already thought about getting out of these dreams hundreds times. I started thinking why am I thinking of this. But if I am thinking what’s causing it. It was like all the why conundrums were coming to me. J was thinking about existence and start of universe and then suddenly realising that these are thoughts and I have to get out of it. And then realising i already thought of getting out of it. And felt getting back. I even thought that aav I am stuck I can move forward and this is end of it . End of time and universe . The starting of universe was a visualisation of dot moving very fast. And as it was moving it was emitting objects and masses and different things of forms I cant even explain. And then everything came in existence. And when I thought that am stuck I felt like very thing is dragging back. The particles is moving back and slowing down. Everything was rewinding and started thinking about where prticle came in existence if we came from them. But during all these thoughts I don’t know how my times I got back to the folds of thought that these are loop and I have to get out. And whenever i opened my eyes during that time . Everything was still as it can be.

>No one knows about this experience and maybe cause i do t know how to describe everything. What i describes above can also seemed to be weird to a lot of people. But all I can say I don’t have exact words and ways to describe everything. And it may take eternity to describe everything that I thought during that half hour of time.

>You might think am crazy but I am not. During all the time that I don’t smoke am a brilliant kid pursuing my university degree and a great hobbyist for painting and music. Everything is normal in life except that one moment I can recall every now and then. I might need to talk to someone maybe a psychiatrist but am not sure if they will understand what I had in my mind. And I don’t know where to find someone who can understand those things and explain me everything that happened.