# How the hell will I do this

I need to figure out two things:

1. How will I assimilate stuff
1. How will I record the process and product of assimilation here.

For the last one, I think the bubbles will be merely chunks of self contained but hyperlinked units of information.

But for this to be a journey, it needs to have a time dimension. So, Im kind of conceptualicing the "wayward" as the spinal chord that mentions and links to the bubbles in the time dimension. Of course, the bubbles connect themselves without time in their "bubble dimension".

Another problem, is that my thought process jumps fast towards topics I havent fully digested nor have the focus right now to do this. For this, I think that if I made the bubble and point it towards the source of the information that brought it up may be sufficient. Later, I can add my own thoughts to it.
[[flight-of-ideas-racing-thoughts]]
[[perfection-is-paralyzing]]

> 12 hours later...

A more important problem is that something is blocking me from actually doing what I want. Probably anxiety, I just spend the whole day procrastinating instead of executing my original plan. I'm so afraid of doing it wrong that I just dont do it... Too much emotional investment can be a double-edged sword.

[[fear-of-failure]] [[the-power-of-emotional-investment]]

I at least got to hyperlink the previous entry... [[2023-01-01]] and this one.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[flight-of-ideas-racing-thoughts]: .././bubbles/flight-of-ideas-racing-thoughts "flight-of-ideas-racing-thoughts"
[perfection-is-paralyzing]: .././bubbles/perfection-is-paralyzing "perfection-is-paralyzing"
[fear-of-failure]: .././bubbles/fear-of-failure "fear-of-failure"
[the-power-of-emotional-investment]: .././bubbles/the-power-of-emotional-investment "the-power-of-emotional-investment"
[2023-01-01]: .././wayward/2023-01-01 "2023-01-01"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"

